# Reviewing Data Structuring (Not Data Types)
When we talk about Data Types - we usually mean the column type settings for Structured Data stored in Tables, like NUMERIC, VARCHAR, VARIANT and more. But we can also talk about the structure of the files that hold the data. In this workshop we will always say Data Structure Types when we mean the file storage structures for data that can be referred to as Structured, Semi-Structured, and Unstructured.

Structured data in a file (like a .txt or .csv) is arranged as a series of rows (often each line in the file is a row). Each row in the file is separated into columns. The value used to separate each row of data into columns can vary. Sometimes a comma is used to separate the values in each row into columns. Sometimes a tab is used. You can have pipes (sometimes called "vertical bars") as column delimiters, or many other symbols.  Regardless of which separator is used, any data file with data arranged in rows and columns (and no nesting) is called "structured data" and we often load each value into a column and each line into a row in our Snowflake tables.

Semi-Structured data (in a file like .json, or .xml)  is data that has unpredictable levels of nesting and often each "row" of data can vary widely in the information it contains. Semi-structured data stored in a flat file may have markup using angle brackets (like XML) or curly brackets (like JSON). Snowflake can load and process common nested data types like JSON, XML, Avro, Parquet, and ORC. Each of the semi-structured data types is loaded into Snowflake tables using a column data type called VARIANT.  A VARIANT column might contain many key-value pairs and multiple nested records and it will also keep the markup symbols like curly braces and angle brackets.  NOTE: A file can be semi-structured, even if the file's name ends in .txt. If the data inside a file is formatted using semi-structured layout and markup, the file is considered semi-structured.

There is a third type of data file called Unstructured data. (File names will have extensions like .mp3, .mp4, .png, etc.)  Snowflake added support for Unstructured Data in August of 2021. Snowflake has ways to help you store, access, process, manage, govern, and share unstructured data. Videos, images, audio files, pdfs and other file types are considered unstructured data.

Snowflake's goal is to make it very easy for you to combine all three types of data so that you can analyze and process it together rather than needing to use multiple tools to do your data work. 